We define the prequantization of a symplectic Anosov diffeomorphism f:M-> M, which is a U(1)
extension of the diffeomorphism f preserving an associated specific connection, and study the
spectral properties of the associated transfer operator, called prequantum transfer operator.
This is a model for the transfer operators associated to geodesic flows on negatively curved manifolds
(or contact Anosov flows). We restrict the prequantum transfer operator to the N-th Fourier mode
with respect to the U(1) action and investigate the spectral property in the limit N->infinity,
regarding the transfer operator as a Fourier integral operator and using semi-classical analysis.
In the main result, we show a " band structure " of the spectrum, that is, the spectrum is contained
in a few separated annuli and a disk concentric at the origin. We show that, with the special (H\"older
continuous) potential V0=1/2 log |det Df_x|_{E_u}|, the outermost annulus is the unit circle and
separated from the other parts. For this, we use an extension of the transfer operator to the Grassmanian
bundle. Using Atiyah-Bott trace formula, we establish the Gutzwiller trace formula with exponentially
small reminder for large time. We show also that, for a potential V such that the outermost annulus
is separated from the other parts, most of the eigenvalues in the outermost annulus concentrate
on a circle of radius exp where <.> denotes the spatial average on M. The number of these eigenvalues
is given by the "Weyl law", that is, N^d.Vol(M) with d=1/2. dim(M) in the leading order. We develop
a semiclassical calculus associated to the prequantum operator by defining quantization of observables
Op(psi) in an intrinsic way. We obtain that the semiclassical Egorov formula of quantum transport
is exact. We interpret all these results from a physical point of view as the emergence of quantum
dynamics in the classical correlation functions for large time. We compare these results with standard
quantization (geometric quantization) in quantum chaos. 