We introduce order-based diffusion processes as the solutions to multidimensional stochastic
differential equations, with drift coefficient depending only on the ordering of the coordinates
of the process and diffusion matrix proportional to the identity. These processes describe the
evolution of a system of Brownian particles moving on the real line with piecewise constant drifts,
and are the natural generalization of the rank-based diffusion processes introduced in stochastic
portfolio theory or in the probabilistic interpretation of nonlinear evolution equations. Owing
to the discontinuity of the drift coefficient, the corresponding ordinary differential equations
are ill-posed. Therefore, the small noise limit of order-based diffusion processes is not covered
by the classical Freidlin-Wentzell theory. The description of this limit is the purpose of this
article. We first give a complete analysis of the two-particle case. Despite its apparent simplicity,
the small noise limit of such a system already exhibits various behaviours. In particular, depending
on the drift coefficient, the particles can either stick into a cluster, the velocity of which is
determined by elementary computations, or drift away from each other at constant velocity, in a
random ordering. The persistence of randomness in the zero noise limit is of the very same nature
as in the pioneering works by Veretennikov (Mat. Zametki, 1983) and Bafico and Baldi (Stochastics,
1981) concerning the so-called Peano phenomenon. In the case of rank-based processes, we use a simple
convexity argument to prove that the small noise limit is described by the sticky particle dynamics
introduced by Brenier and Grenier (SIAM J. Numer. Anal., 1998), where particles travel at constant
velocity between collisions, at which they stick together. In the general case of order-based processes,
we give a sufficient condition on the drift for all the particles to aggregate into a single cluster,
and compute the velocity of this cluster. Our argument consists in turning the study of the small
noise limit into the study of the long time behaviour of a suitably rescaled process, and then exhibiting
a Lyapunov functional for this rescaled process. 