We propose a definition of the Dirichlet energy (which is roughly speaking the integral of the square
of the gradient) for mappings mu : Omega -> (P(D), W\_2) defined over a subset Omega of R^p and valued
in the space P(D) of probability measures on a compact convex subset D of R^q endowed with the quadratic
Wasserstein distance. Our definition relies on a straightforward generalization of the Benamou-Brenier
formula (already introduced by Brenier) but is also equivalent to the definition of Koorevaar,
Schoen and Jost as limit of approximate Dirichlet energies, and to the definition of Reshetnyak
of Sobolev spaces valued in metric spaces. We study harmonic mappings, i.e. minimizers of the Dirichlet
energy provided that the values on the boundary d Omega are fixed. The notion of constant-speed geodesics
in the Wasserstein space is recovered by taking for Omega a segment of R. As the Wasserstein space
(P(D), W\_2) is positively curved in the sense of Alexandrov we cannot apply the theory of Koorevaar,
Schoen and Jost and we use instead arguments based on optimal transport. We manage to get existence
of harmonic mappings provided that the boundary values are Lipschitz on d Omega, uniqueness is an
open question. If Omega is a segment of R, it is known that a curve valued in the Wasserstein space P(D)
can be seen as a superposition of curves valued in D. We show that it is no longer the case in higher dimensions:
a generic mapping Omega -> P(D) cannot be represented as the superposition of mappings Omega -> D.
We are able to show a Ishihara-type property: the composition F(mu) of a function F : P(D) -> R convex
along generalized geodesics and a harmonic mapping mu : Omega -> P(D) is a subharmonic real-valued
function. We also study the special case where we restrict ourselves to a given family of elliptically
contoured distributions (a finite-dimensional and geodesically convex submanifold of (P(D),
W\_2) which generalizes the case of Gaussian measures) and show that it boils down to harmonic mappings
valued in the Riemannian manifold of symmetric matrices endowed with the distance coming from optimal
transport. 