We study operator algebras arising from monomial ideals in the ring of polynomials in noncommuting
variables, through the apparatus of subproduct systems and C*-correspondences. We provide a full
comparison amongst the related operator algebras. For our analysis we isolate a partially defined
dynamical system, to which we refer as the {\em quantised dynamics} of the monomial ideal. In addition
we revisit several previously considered constructions. These include Matsumoto's subshift
C*-algebras, as well as the tensor and the Pimsner algebras associated with dynamical systems or
graphs. We sort out the various relations by giving concrete conditions and counterexamples that
orientate the operator algebras of our context. It appears that the boundary C*-algebras do not
arise as the quotient with the compact operators unconditionally. We establish a dichotomy to this
effect by examining the resulting tensor algebras. We identify their boundary representations,
we analyse their C*-envelopes, and we give criteria for hyperrigidity. Moreover we completely
classify them in terms of the data provided by the monomial ideals. For tensor algebras of C*-correspondences
and bounded isomorphisms this is achieved up to the level of local conjugacy (in the sense of Davidson
and Roydor) for the quantised dynamics. For tensor algebras of subproduct systems and algebraic
isomorphisms this is achieved up to the level of equality of monomial ideals modulo permutations
of the variables. In the process we accomplish more in different directions. Most notably we show
that tensor algebras form a complete invariant for isomorphic (resp. similar) subproduct systems
of homogeneous ideals up to isometric (resp. bounded) isomorphisms. The results on local conjugacy
are obtained via an alternative proof of the breakthrough result of Davidson and Katsoulis on piecewise
conjugate systems. For our purposes we use appropriate compressions of the Fock representation.
We then apply this alternative proof locally for the partially defined quantised dynamics. In this
way we avoid the topological graphs machinery and pave the way for further applications. These include
operator algebras of dynamical systems over commuting contractions or over row commuting contractions.
