We consider the identification of heterogeneous linear elastic moduli in the context of time-harmonic
elastodynamics. This inverse problem is formulated as the minimization of the modified error in
constitutive equation (MECE), an energy-based cost functional defined as an weighted additive
combination $\mathcal{E}+\kappa\mathcal{D}$ of the error in constitutive equation (ECE) $\mathcal{E}$,
expressed using an energy seminorm, and a quadratic error term $\mathcal{D}$ incorporating the
kinematical measurements. MECE-based identification are known from existing computational
evidence to enjoy attractive properties such as improved convexity, robustness to resonant frequencies,
and tolerance to incompletely specified boundary conditions (BCs). The main goal of this work is
to develop theoretical foundations, in a continuous setting, allowing to explain and justify some
of the aforementioned beneficial properties, in particular addressing the general case where
BCs may be underspecified. A specific feature of MECE formulations is that forward and adjoint solutions
are governed by a fully coupled system, whose mathematical properties play a fundamental role in
the qualitative and computational aspects of MECE minimization. We prove that this system has a
unique and stable solution at any frequency, provided data is abundant enough (in a sense made precise
therein) to at least compensate for any missing information on BCs. As a result, our formulation
leads in such situations to a well-defined solution even though the relevant forward problem is
not \emph{a priori} clearly defined. This result has practical implications such as applicability
of MECE to partial interior data (with important practical applications including ultrasound
elastography), convergence of finite element discretizations and differentiability of the reduced
MECE functional. In addition, we establish that usual least squares and pure ECE formulations are
limiting cases of MECE formulations for small and large values of $\kappa$, respectively. For the
latter case, which corresponds to exact enforcement of kinematic data, we furthermore show that
the reduced MECE Hessian is asymptotically positive for any parameter perturbation supported
on the measurement region, thereby corroborating existing computational evidence on convexity
improvement brought by MECE functionals. Finally, numerical studies that support and illustrate
our theoretical findings, including a parameter reconstruction example using interior data,
are presented. 