We study the 2D full Ginzburg-Landau energy with a periodic rapidly oscillating, discontinuous
and [strongly] diluted pinning term using a perturbative argument. This energy models the state
of an heterogeneous type II supercon-ductor submitted to a magnetic field. We calculate the value
of the first critical field which links the presence of vorticity defects with the intensity of the
applied magnetic field. Then we prove a standard dependance of the quantized vorticity defects
with the intensity of the applied field. Our study includes the case of a London solution having several
minima. The macroscopic location of the vor-ticity defects is understood with the famous Bethuel-Brezis-H{\'e}lein
renormalized energy. The mesoscopic location, i.e., the arrangement of the vorticity defects
around the minima of the London solution, is the same than in the homogenous case. The microscopic
location is exactly the same than in the heterogeneous case without magnetic field. We also compute
the value of secondary critical fields that increment the quantized vorticity. 1. Introdution
This article studies the pinning phenomenon in type-II superconducting composites. Superconductivity
is a property that appears in certain materials cooled below a critical temperature. These materials
are called superconductors. Superconductivity is characterized by a total absence of electrical
resistance and a perfect diamagnetism. Unfortunately, when the imposed conditions are too intense,
superconductivity is destroyed in certain areas of the material called vorticity defects. We are
interested in type II superconductors which are characterized by the fact that the vorticity defects
first appear in small areas. Their number increases with the intensity of the conditions imposed
until filling the material. For example, when the intensity h ex of an applied magnetic field exceeds
a first threshold, the first vorticity defects appear: the magnetic field begins to penetrate the
superconductor. The penetration is done along thin wires and may move resulting an energy dissipation.
These motions may be limited by trapping the vorticity defects in small areas. The behavior of a superconductor
is modeled by minimizers of a Ginzburg-Landau type energy. In order to study the presence of traps
for the vorticity defects we consider an energy including a pinning term that models impurities
in the supercon-ductor. These impurities would play the role of traps for the vorticity defects.
We are thus lead to the subject of this article: the type-II superconducting composites with impurities.
