A theory of Ruelle-Pollicott (RP) resonances for stochastic systems is introduced. These resonances
are defined as the eigenvalues of the generator (Kolmogorov operator) of a given stochastic system.
By relying on the theory of Markov semigroups, decomposition formulas of correlation functions
and power spectral densities (PSDs) in terms of RP resonances are then derived. These formulas describe,
for a broad class of stochastic differential equations (SDEs), how the RP resonances characterize
the decay of correlations as well as the signal's oscillatory components manifested by peaks in
the PSD. It is then shown that a notion reduced RP resonances can be rigorously defined, as soon as
the dynamics is partially observed within a reduced state space V. These reduced resonances are
obtained from the spectral elements of reduced Markov operators acting on functions of the state
space V , and can be estimated from series. When the sampling rate (in time) at which the observations
are collected is either sufficiently small or large, it is shown that the reduced RP resonances approximate
the RP resonances of the generator of the conditional expectation in V , i.e. the optimal reduced
system in V obtained by averaging out the contribution of the unobserved variables. The approach
is illustrated on a stochastic slow-fast system for which it is shown that the reduced RP resonances
allow for a good reconstruction of the correlation functions and PSDs, even when the timescale separation
is weak. The companions articles, Part II[TCND19a] and Part III [TCND19b], deal with further practical
aspects of the theory presented in this contribution. One important byproduct consists of the diagnosis
usefulness of stochastic dynamics that RP resonances offer. This is illustrated in the case of a
stochastic Hopf bifurcation in Part II. There, it is shown that such a bifurcation has a clear signature
in terms of the geometric organization of the RP resonances in the left half plane. This analysis
provides thus an unambiguous signature of nonlinear oscillations contained in a noisy signal and
that can be extracted from time series. By relying then on the theory of reduced RP resonances presented
in this contribution, Part III addresses then the question of detection and characterization of
such oscillations in a high-dimensional stochastic system, namely the Cane-Zebiak model of El
Ni{\~n}o-Southern Oscillation subject to noise modeling fast atmospheric fluctuations. 