A theory of Ruelle-Pollicott (RP) resonances for stochastic differential systems is presented.
These resonances are defined as the eigenvalues of the generator (Kolmogorov operator) of a given
stochastic system. By relying on the theory of Markov semigroups, decomposition formulas of correlation
functions and power spectral densities (PSDs) in terms of RP resonances are then derived. These
formulas describe, for a broad class of stochastic differential equations (SDEs), how the RP resonances
characterize the decay of correlations as well as the signal's oscillatory components manifested
by peaks in the PSD.It is then shown that a notion reduced RP resonances can be rigorously defined,
as soon as the dynamics is partially observed within a reduced state space V . These reduced resonances
are obtained from the spectral elements of reduced Markov operators acting on functions of the state
space V , and can be estimated from series. They inform us about the spectral elements of some coarse-grained
version of the SDE generator. When the time-lag at which the transitions are collected from partial
observations in V , is either sufficiently small or large, it is shown that the reduced RP resonances
approximate the (weak) RP resonances of the generator of the conditional expectation in V , i.e.
the optimal reduced system in V obtained by averaging out the contribution of the unobserved variables.
The approach is illustrated on a stochastic slow-fast system for which it is shown that the reduced
RP resonances allow for a good reconstruction of the correlation functions and PSDs, even when the
time-scale separation is weak.The companions articles, Part II and Part III, deal with further
practical aspects of the theory presented in this contribution. One important byproduct consists
of the diagnosis usefulness of stochastic dynamics that RP resonances provide. This is illustrated
in the case of a stochastic Hopf bifurcation in Part II. There, it is shown that such a bifurcation
has a clear manifestation in terms of a geometric organization of the RP resonances along discrete
parabolas in the left half plane. Such geometric features formed by (reduced) RP resonances are
extractable from time series and allow thus for providing an unambiguous "signature" of nonlinear
oscillations embedded within a stochastic background. By relying then on the theory of reduced
RP resonances presented in this contribution, Part III addresses the question of detection and
characterization of such oscillations in a high-dimensional stochastic system, namely the Cane-Zebiak
model of El Ni{\~n}o-Southern Oscillation subject to noise modeling fast atmospheric fluctuations.
