The ply elastic constants needed for classical lamination theory analysis of multi-directional
laminates may differ from those obtained from unidirectional laminates because of three dimensional
effects. In addition, the unidirectional laminates may not be available for testing. In such cases,
full-field displacement measurements offer the potential of identifying several material properties
simultaneously. For that, it is desirable to create complex displacement fields that are strongly
influenced by all the elastic constants. In this work, we explore the potential of using a laminated
plate with an open-hole under traction loading to achieve that and identify all four ply elastic
constants (E 1, E 2, 12, G 12) at once. However, the accuracy of the identified properties may not be
as good as properties measured from individual tests due to the complexity of the experiment, the
relative insensitivity of the measured quantities to some of the properties and the various possible
sources of uncertainty. It is thus important to quantify the uncertainty (or confidence) with which
these properties are identified. Here, Bayesian identification is used for this purpose, because
it can readily model all the uncertainties in the analysis and measurements, and because it provides
the full coupled probability distribution of the identified material properties. In addition,
it offers the potential to combine properties identified based on substantially different experiments.
The full-field measurement is obtained by moir\'e interferometry. For computational efficiency
the Bayesian approach was applied to a proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) of the displacement
fields. The analysis showed that the four orthotropic elastic constants are determined with quite
different confidence levels as well as with significant correlation. Comparison with manufacturing
specifications showed substantial difference in one constant, and this conclusion agreed with
earlier measurement of that constant by a traditional four-point bending test. It is possible that
the POD approach did not take full advantage of the copious data provided by the full field measurements,
and for that reason that data is provided for others to use (as on line material attached to the article).
