We consider a one dimensional system of $N$ bosons interacting via an attractive Dirac delta function
potential. We place the bosonic quantum particles at thermal equilibrium in a box of length $L$ with
periodic boundary conditions. At large $N$ and for $L$ much larger than the diameter of a two particle
bound state, we predict by numerical and analytical studies of a simple model derived from first
principles that the system exhibits a first order phase transition in a high temperature, non-degenerate
regime. The higher temperature phase is an almost pure atomic gas, with a small fraction of dimers,
a smaller fraction of trimers, etc. The lower temperature phase is a mesoscopic or macroscopic bound
state that collects all the particles of the system with the exception of a small gaseous fraction
composed mainly of atoms. We term this phase, which is the quantum equivalent of the classical bright
soliton, a liquid. ---------- Nous considerons, en dimension un, une assemblee de $N$ particules
quantiques bosoniques interagissant par un potentiel de Dirac attractif, a l'equilibre thermique
dans une boite de quantification de longueur L avec des conditions aux limites periodiques. A grand
N, et lorsque L est bien superieur au diametre de l'etat dimere dans l'espace reel, nous predisons,
par etude numerique et analytique d'un modele simple mais deduit des premiers principes, que le
systeme presente, a haute temperature c'est-a-dire dans le regime non degenere, une transition
du premier ordre entre deux phases. La phase privilegiee a haute temperature est un gaz presque pur
d'atomes, avec une faible fraction de dimeres, et des fractions encore plus faibles de trimeres,
etc. La phase qui la supplante a moins haute temperature est un etat lie mesoscopique ou macroscopique
que nous qualifions de liquide, equivalent quantique du soliton brillant de la theorie de champ
classique, et qui renferme toutes les particules du systeme, a l'exception d'une petite fraction
gazeuse composee essentiellement d'atomes. 