The phase stability of fcc and bcc magnetic binary Fe-Cr, Fe-Ni, Cr-Ni alloys and ternary Fe-Cr-Ni
alloys is investigated using a combination of density functional theory (DFT), Cluster Expansion
(CE) and Magnetic Cluster Expansion (MCE). Energies, magnetic moments, and volumes of more than
500 alloy structures are evaluated using DFT, and the most stable magnetic configurations are compared
with experimental data. Deviations from the Vegard law in fcc Fe-Cr-Ni alloys, associated with
non-linear variation of atomic magnetic moments as functions of alloy composition, are observed.
Accuracy of the CE model is assessed against the DFT data, where for ternary alloys the cross-validation
error is smaller than 12 meV/atom. A set of cluster interaction parameters is defined for each alloy,
where it is used for predicting new ordered alloy structures. Fcc Fe2CrNi phase with Cu2NiZn-like
structure is predicted as the global ground state with the lowest chemical ordering temperature
of 650K. DFT-based Monte Carlo (MC) simulations are used for assessing finite temperature fcc-bcc
phase stability and order-disorder transitions in Fe-Cr-Ni alloys. Enthalpies of formation of
ternary alloys calculated from MC simulations at 1600K combined with magnetic correction derived
from MCE are in excellent agreement with experimental values measured at 1565K. Chemical order
is analysed, as a function of temperature and composition, in terms of the Warren-Cowley short-range
order (SRO) parameters and effective chemical pairwise interactions. In addition to compositions
close to the known binary intermetallic phases like CrNi2, FeNi, FeNi3 and FeNi8, pronounced chemical
order is found in fcc alloys near the centre of the ternary alloy composition triangle. The SRO parameter
characterizing pairs of Fe and Ni atoms decreases as a function of Cr concentration. The calculated
SRO parameters are compared to the available experimental data on binary and ternary alloys, and
good agreement is found. Finite temperature magnetic properties of fcc Fe-Cr-Ni alloys are investigated
using an MCE Hamiltonian constructed using a DFT database of energies and magnetic moments. MCE
simulations show that ordered ternary Fe2CrNi alloy phase remains magnetic up to fairly high temperatures
due to anti-ferromagnetic coupling between (Fe,Ni) and Cr atoms in the ternary Fe-Cr-Ni matrix.
