Topology, geometry, and gauge fields play key roles in quantum physics as exemplified by fundamental
phenomena such as the Aharonov-Bohm effect, the integer quantum Hall effect, the spin Hall, and
topological insulators. The concept of topological protection has also become a salient ingredient
in many schemes for quantum information processing and fault-tolerant quantum computation. The
physical properties of such systems crucially depend on the symmetry group of the underlying holonomy.
We study here a laser-cooled gas of strontium atoms coupled to laser fields through a 4-level resonant
tripod scheme. By cycling the relative phases of the tripod beams, we realize non-Abelian SU(2)
geometrical transformations acting on the dark-states of the system and demonstrate their non-Abelian
character. We also reveal how the gauge field imprinted on the atoms impact their internal state
dynamics. It leads to a new thermometry method based on the interferometric displacement of atoms
in the tripod beams. Introduction. In 1984, M. V. Berry published the remarkable discovery that
cyclic parallel transport of quantum states causes the appearance of geometrical phases factors
[1]. His discovery, along with precursor works [2, 3], unified seemingly different phenomena within
the framework of gauge theories [4, 5]. This seminal work was rapidly generalized to non-adiabatic
and noncyclic evolutions [5] and, most saliently for our concern here, to degenerate states by F.
Wilczek and A. Zee [6]. In this case, the underlying symmetry of the degenerate sub-space leads to
a non-Abelian gauge field structure. These early works on topology in quantum physics have opened
up tremendous interest in condensed matter [7--11] and more recently in ultracold gases [12--20]
and photonic devices [21--23]. Moreover, it has been noted that geometrical qubits are resilient
to certain noises, making them potential candidates for fault-tolerant quantum computing [24--
27]. So far, beside some recent proposals [28, 29], experimental implementations have been performed
for a 2-qubit gate on NV-centers in diamond [30] and for a non-Abelian single qubit gate in superconducting
circuits [31]. These experiments were performed following a non-adiabatic protocol allowing
for high-speed manipulation [29, 32, 33]. Recently, coherent control of ultracold spin-1 atoms
confined in optical dipole traps was used to study the geometric phases associated with singular
loops in a quantum system [34]. If non-adiabatic manipulation are promising methods for quantum
computing, they prevent the study of external dynamic of quantum system in a non-abelian gauge field,
where non-trivial coupling occurs between the internal qubit state and the center-of-mass wave
function of the particle. We report here on non-Abelian adiabatic geometric transformations implemented
on a noninteracting cold 