Topological Quantum Chemistry (TQC) links the chemical and symmetry structure of a given material
with its topological properties. This field tabulates the data of the 10398 real-space atomic limits
of materials, and solves the compatibility relations of electronic bands in momentum space. A material
that is not an atomic limit or whose bands do not satisfy the compatibility relations, is a topological
insulator/semimetal. We use TQC to find the topological stoichiometric non-magnetic, ``high-quality''
materials in the world. We develop several code additions to VASP which can com- pute all characters
of all symmetries at all high-symmetry points in the Brillouin Zone (BZ). Using TQC we then develop
codes to check which materials in ICSD are topological. Out of 26938 sto- ichiometric materials
in our filtered ICSD database, we find 2861 topological insulators (TI) and 2936 topological semimetals
(2505 and 2560 non-f electron, respectively). Our method is uniquely capable to show that none of
the TI's found exhibit fragile topology. We partition the topological materials in different physical
classes. For the majority of the 5797 ``high-quality'' topological mate- rial, we compute: the
topological class (equivalence classes of TQC elementary band representations - equivalent to
the topological index), the symmetry(ies) that protects the topological class, the rep- resentations
at high symmetry points and the direct gap (for insulators), and the topological index. For topological
semimetals we then compute whether the system becomes a topological insulator (whose index/class
we compute) upon breaking symmetries - useful for experiments. 2152 more TI's are obtained in this
way. For almost all 5065 non-f-electron topological materials, we provide the electronic band
structures, allowing the identification of quantitative properties (gaps, velocities). Remarkably,
our exhaustive results show that a large proportion ( ~ 24% !) of all materials in nature are topological
(confirmed by calculations of ``low-quality'' materials). We confirm the topology of several
new materials by Wilson loop calculations. We added an open-source code and end-user button on the
Bilbao Crystallographic Server (BCS) which checks the topology of any material. We comment on the
chemistry of each compound and sample part of the ``low-quality'' ICSD data to find more materials.
