Aggregates of misfolded proteins are a hallmark of many age-related diseases. Recently, they have
been linked to aging of Escherichia coli (E. coli) where protein aggregates accumulate at the old
pole region of the aging bacterium. Because of the potential of E. coli as a model organism, elucidating
aging and protein aggregation in this bacterium may pave the way to significant advances in our global
understanding of aging. A first obstacle along this path is to decipher the mechanisms by which protein
aggregates are targeted to specific intercellular locations. Here, using an integrated approach
based on individual-based modeling, time-lapse fluorescence microscopy and automated image
analysis, we show that the movement of aging-related protein aggregates in E. coli is purely diffusive
(Brownian). Using single-particle tracking of protein aggregates in live E. coli cells, we estimated
the average size and diffusion constant of the aggregates. Our results evidence that the aggregates
passively diffuse within the cell, with diffusion constants that depend on their size in agreement
with the Stokes-Einstein law. However, the aggregate displacements along the cell long axis are
confined to a region that roughly corresponds to the nucleoid-free space in the cell pole, thus confirming
the importance of increased macromolecular crowding in the nucleoids. We thus used 3d individual-based
modeling to show that these three ingredients (diffusion, aggregation and diffusion hindrance
in the nucleoids) are sufficient and necessary to reproduce the available experimental data on
aggregate localization in the cells. Taken together, our results strongly support the hypothesis
that the localization of aging-related protein aggregates in the poles of E. coli results from the
coupling of passive diffusion- aggregation with spatially non-homogeneous macromolecular crowding.
They further support the importance of "soft" intracellular structuring (based on macromolecular
crowding) in diffusion-based protein localization in E. coli. 