In this paper, we describe a scheme for propagating belief functions in certain kinds of trees using
only local computations. This scheme generalizes the computational scheme proposed by Shafer
and Logan1 for diagnostic trees of the type studied by Gordon and Shortliffe, and the slightly more
general scheme given by Shafer for hierarchical evidence. It also generalizes the scheme proposed
by Pearl for Bayesian causal trees (see Shenoy and Shafer). Pearl's causal trees and Gordon and Shortliffe's
diagnostic trees are both ways of breaking the evidence that bears on a large problem down into smaller
items of evidence that bear on smaller parts of the problem so that these smaller problems can be dealt
with one at a time. This localization of effort is often essential in order to make the process of probability
judgment feasible, both for the person who is making probability judgments and for the machine that
is combining them. The basic structure for our scheme is a type of tree that generalizes both Pearl's
and Gordon and Shortliffe's trees. Trees of this general type permit localized computation in Pearl's
sense. They are based on qualitative judgments of conditional independence. We believe that the
scheme we describe here will prove useful in expert systems. It is now clear that the successful propagation
of probabilities or certainty factors in expert systems requires much more structure than can be
provided in a pure production-system framework. Bayesian schemes, on the other hand, often make
unrealistic demands for structure. The propagation of belief functions in trees and more general
networks stands on a middle ground where some sensible and useful things can be done. We would like
to emphasize that the basic idea of local computation for propagating probabilities is due to Judea
Pearl. It is a very innovative idea; we do not believe that it can be found in the Bayesian literature
prior to Pearl's work. We see our contribution as extending the usefulness of Pearl's idea by generalizing
it from Bayesian probabilities to belief functions. In the next section, we give a brief introduction
to belief functions. The notions of qualitative independence for partitions and a qualitative
Markov tree are introduced in Section III. Finally, in Section IV, we describe a scheme for propagating
belief functions in qualitative Markov trees. 