(l) I have enough evidence to render the sentence S probable. (la) So, relative to what I know, it is
rational of me to believe S. (2) Now that I have more evidence, S may no longer be probable. (2a) So now,
relative to what I know, it is not rational of me to believe S. These seem a perfectly ordinary, common
sense, pair of situations. Generally and vaguely, I take them to embody what I shall call probabilistic
inference. This form of inference is clearly non-monotonic. Relatively few people have taken this
form of inference, based on high probability, to serve as a foundation for non-monotonic logic or
for a logical or defeasible inference. There are exceptions: Jane Nutter [16] thinks that sometimes
probability has something to do with non-monotonic reasoning. Judea Pearl [ 17] has recently been
exploring the possibility. There are any number of people whom one might call probability enthusiasts
who feel that probability provides all the answers by itself, with no need of help from logic. Cheeseman
[1], Henrion [5] and others think it useful to look at a distribution of probabilities over a whole
algebra of statements, to update that distribution in the light of new evidence, and to use the latest
updated distribution of probability over the algebra as a basis for planning and decision making.
A slightly weaker form of this approach is captured by Nilsson [15], where one assumes certain probabilities
for certain statements, and infers the probabilities, or constraints on the probabilities of other
statement. None of this corresponds to what I call probabilistic inference. All of the inference
that is taking place, either in Bayesian updating, or in probabilistic logic, is strictly deductive.
Deductive inference, particularly that concerned with the distribution of classical probabilities
or chances, is of great importance. But this is not to say that there is no important role for what earlier
logicians have called ?ampliative? or ?inductive? or ?scientific? inference, in which the conclusion
goes beyond the premises, asserts more than do the premises. This depends on what David Israel [6]
has called ?real rules of inference?. It is characteristic of any such logic or inference procedure
that it can go wrong: that statements accepted at one point may be rejected at a later point. Research
underlying the results reported here has been partially supported by the Signals Warfare Center
of the United States Army. 