During the summer of 1989, the Forecast Systems Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration sponsored an evaluation of artificial intelligence-based systems that forecast
severe convective storms. The evaluation experiment, called Shootout-89, took place in Boulder,
and focussed on storms over the northeastern Colorado foothills and plains (Moninger, et al., 1990).
Six systems participated in Shootout-89. These included traditional expert systems, an analogy-based
system, and a system developed using methods from the cognitive science/judgment analysis tradition.
Each day of the exercise, the systems generated 2 to 9 hour forecasts of the probabilities of occurrence
of: non significant weather, significant weather, and severe weather, in each of four regions in
northeastern Colorado. A verification coordinator working at the Denver Weather Service Forecast
Office gathered ground-truth data from a network of observers. Systems were evaluated on the basis
of several measures of forecast skill, and on other metrics such as timeliness, ease of learning,
and ease of use. Systems were generally easy to operate, however the various systems required substantially
different levels of meteorological expertise on the part of their users--reflecting the various
operational environments for which the systems had been designed. Systems varied in their statistical
behavior, but on this difficult forecast problem, the systems generally showed a skill approximately
equal to that of persistence forecasts and climatological (historical frequency) forecasts.
The two systems that appeared best able to discriminate significant from non significant weather
events were traditional expert systems. Both of these systems required the operator to make relatively
sophisticated meteorological judgments. We are unable, based on only one summer's worth of data,
to determine the extent to which the greater skill of the two systems was due to the content of their
knowledge bases, or to the subjective judgments of the operator. A follow-on experiment, Shootout-91,
is currently being planned. Interested potential participants are encouraged to contact the author
at the address above. 