This tutorial presents topological methods for the analysis and visualization of scientific data
from a user's perspective, with the Topology ToolKit (TTK), a recently released open-source library
for topological data analysis. Topological methods have gained considerably in popularity and
maturity over the last twenty years and success stories of established methods have been documented
in a wide range of applications (combustion, chemistry, astrophysics, material sciences, etc.)
with both acquired and simulated data, in both post-hoc and in-situ contexts. While reference textbooks
have been published on the topic, no tutorial at IEEE VIS has covered this area in recent years, and
never at a software level and from a user's point-of-view. This tutorial fills this gap by providing
a beginner's introduction to topological methods for practitioners, researchers, students,
and lecturers. In particular, instead of focusing on theoretical aspects and algorithmic details,
this tutorial focuses on how topological methods can be useful in practice for concrete data analysis
tasks such as segmentation, feature extraction or tracking. The tutorial describes in detail how
to achieve these tasks with TTK. First, after an introduction to topological methods and their application
in data analysis, a brief overview of TTK's main entry point for end users, namely ParaView, will
be presented. Second, an overview of TTK's main features will be given. A running example will be
described in detail, showcasing how to access TTK's features via ParaView, Python, VTK/C++, and
C++. Third, hands-on sessions will concretely show how to use TTK in ParaView for multiple, representative
data analysis tasks. Fourth, the usage of TTK will be presented for developers, in particular by
describing several examples of visualization and data analysis projects that were built on top
of TTK. Finally, some feedback regarding the usage of TTK as a teaching platform for topological
analysis will be given. Presenters of this tutorial include experts in topological methods, core
authors of TTK as well as active users, coming from academia, labs, or industry. A large part of the
tutorial will be dedicated to hands-on exercises and a rich material package (including TTK pre-installs
in virtual machines, code, data, demos, video tutorials, etc.) will be provided to the participants.
This tutorial mostly targets students, practitioners and researchers who are not experts in topological
methods but who are interested in using them in their daily tasks. We also target researchers already
familiar to topological methods and who are interested in using or contributing to TTK. 