Brain-inspired hyperdimensional (HD) computing models neural activity patterns of the very size
of the brain's circuits with points of a hyperdimensional space, that is, with hypervectors. Hypervectors
are $D$-dimensional (pseudo)random vectors with independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.)
components constituting ultra-wide holographic words: $D = 10,000$ bits, for instance. At its
very core, HD computing manipulates a set of seed hypervectors to build composite hypervectors
representing objects of interest. It demands memory optimizations with simple operations for
an e cient hardware realization. In this paper, we propose hardware techniques for optimizations
of HD computing, in a synthesizable VHDL library, to enable co-located implementation of both learning
and classification tasks on only a small portion of Xilinx(R) UltraScale(TM) FPGAs: (1) We propose
simple logical operations to rematerialize the hypervectors on the fly rather than loading them
from memory. These operations massively reduce the memory footprint by directly computing the
composite hypervectors whose individual seed hypervectors do not need to be stored in memory. (2)
Bundling a series of hypervectors over time requires a multibit counter per every hypervector component.
We instead propose a binarized back-to-back bundling without requiring any counters. This truly
enables on-chip learning with minimal resources as every hypervector component remains binary
over the course of training to avoid otherwise multibit component. (3) For every classification
event, an associative memory is in charge of finding the closest match between a set of learned hypervectors
and a query hypervector by using a distance metric. This operator is proportional to hypervector
dimension ($D$), and hence may take $\mathcal{O}(D)$ cycles per classification event. Accordingly,
we significantly improve the throughput of classification by proposing associative memories
that steadily reduce the latency of classification to the extreme of single cycle. (4) We perform
a design space exploration incorporating the proposed techniques on FPGAs for a wearable biosignal
processing application as a case study. Our techniques achieve up to 2.39x area saving, or 2337x
throughput improvement. The Pareto optimal HD architecture is mapped on only 18340 configurable
logic blocks (CLBs) to learn and classify five hand gestures using four electromyography sensors.
