The act and experience of programming is, at its heart, a fundamentally human activity that results
in the production of artifacts. When considering programming, therefore, it would be a glaring
omission to not involve people who specialize in studying artifacts and the human activity that
yields them: archaeologists. Here we consider this with respect to computer games, the focus of
archaeology's nascent subarea of archaeogaming. One type of archaeogaming research is digital
excavation, a technical examination of the code and techniques used in old games' implementation.
We apply that in a case study of Entombed, an Atari 2600 game released in 1982 by US Games. The player
in this game is, appropriately, an archaeologist who must make their way through a zombie-infested
maze. Maze generation is a fruitful area for comparative retrogame archaeology, because a number
of early games on different platforms featured mazes, and their variety of approaches can be compared.
The maze in Entombed is particularly interesting: it is shaped in part by the extensive real-time
constraints of the Atari 2600 platform, and also had to be generated efficiently and use next to no
memory. We reverse engineered key areas of the game's code to uncover its unusual maze-generation
algorithm, which we have also built a reconstruction of, and analyzed the mysterious table that
drives it. In addition, we discovered what appears to be a 35-year-old bug in the code, as well as direct
evidence of code-reuse practices amongst game developers. What further makes this game's development
interesting is that, in an era where video games were typically solo projects, a total of five people
were involved in various ways with Entombed. We piece together some of the backstory of the game's
development and intoxicant-fueled design using interviews to complement our technical work.
Finally, we contextualize this example in archaeology and lay the groundwork for a broader interdisciplinary
discussion about programming, one that includes both computer scientists and archaeologists.
