The paper deals with the automatic analysis of real-life telephone conversations between an agent
and a customer of a customer care service (ccs). The application domain is the public transportation
system in Paris and the purpose is to collect statistics about customer problems in order to monitor
the service and decide priorities on the intervention for improving user satisfaction. Of primary
importance for the analysis is the detection of themes that are the object of customer problems.
Themes are defined in the application requirements and are part of the application ontology that
is implicit in the ccs documentation. Due to variety of customer population, the structure of conversations
with an agent is unpredictable. A conversation may be about one or more themes. Theme mentions can
be interleaved with mentions of facts that are irrelevant for the application purpose. Furthermore,
in certain conversations theme mentions are localized in specific conversation segments while
in other conversations mentions cannot be localized. As a consequence, approaches to feature extraction
with and without mention localization are considered. Application domain relevant themes identified
by an automatic procedure are expressed by specific sentences whose words are hypothesized by an
automatic speech recognition (asr) system. The asr system is error prone. The word error rates can
be very high for many reasons. Among them it is worth mentioning unpredictable background noise,
speaker accent, and various types of speech disfluencies. As the application task requires the
composition of proportions of theme mentions, a sequential decision strategy is introduced in
this paper for performing a survey of the large amount of conversations made available in a given
time period. The strategy has to sample the conversations to form a survey containing enough data
analyzed with high accuracy so that proportions can be estimated with sufficient accuracy. Due
to the unpredictable type of theme mentions, it is appropriate to consider methods for theme hypothesization
based on global as well as local feature extraction. Two systems based on each type of feature extraction
will be considered by the strategy. One of the four methods is novel. It is based on a new definition
of density of theme mentions and on the localization of high density zones whose boundaries do not
need to be precisely detected. The sequential decision strategy starts by grouping theme hypotheses
into sets of different expected accuracy and coverage levels. For those sets for which accuracy
can be improved with a consequent increase of coverage a new system with new features is introduced.
Its execution is triggered only when specific preconditions are met on the hypotheses generated
by the basic four systems. Experimental results are provided on a corpus collected in the call center
of the Paris transportation system known as ratp. The results show that surveys with high accuracy
and coverage can be composed with the proposed strategy and systems. This makes it possible to apply
a previously published proportion estimation approach that takes into account hypothesization
errors . 