Magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalogra-phy (EEG) are non-invasive modalities
that measure the weak electromagnetic fields generated by neural activity. Inferring the location
of the current sources that generated these magnetic fields is an ill-posed inverse problem known
as source imaging. When considering a group study, a baseline approach consists in carrying out
the estimation of these sources independently for each subject. The ill-posedness of each problem
is typically addressed using sparsity promoting regularizations. A straightforward way to define
a common pattern for these sources is then to average them. A more advanced alternative relies on
a joint localization of sources for all subjects taken together, by enforcing some similarity across
all estimated sources. An important advantage of this approach is that it consists in a single estimation
in which all measurements are pooled together, making the inverse problem better posed. Such a joint
estimation poses however a few challenges, notably the selection of a valid regularizer that can
quantify such spatial similarities. We propose in this work a new procedure that can do so while taking
into account the geometrical structure of the cortex. We call this procedure Minimum Wasserstein
Estimates (MWE). The benefits of this model are twofold. First, joint inference allows to pool together
the data of different brain geometries, accumulating more spatial information. Second, MWE are
defined through Optimal Transport (OT) metrics which provide a tool to model spatial proximity
between cortical sources of different subjects, hence not enforcing identical source location
in the group. These benefits allow MWE to be more accurate than standard MEG source localization
techniques. To support these claims, we perform source localization on realistic MEG simulations
based on forward operators derived from MRI scans. On a visual task dataset, we demonstrate how MWE
infer neural patterns similar to functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) maps. 