The face of simulation-based training has greatly evolved, with the most recent tools giving the
ability to create virtual environments that rival realism. At first glance, it might appear that
what the training sector needs is the most realistic simulators possible, but traditional simulators
are not necessarily the most efficient or practical training tools. With all that these new technologies
have to offer; the challenge is to go back to the core of training needs and identify the right vector
of sensory cues that will most effectively enable training mode in the human brain. Bigger and Pricier
doesn't necessarily mean better. Simulation with cross-reality content (XR), which by definition
encompasses virtual reality (VR), mixed reality (MR), and augmented reality (AR), is the most practical
solution for deploying any kind of simulation-based training. The authors of this paper (a teacher
and a technology expert) share their experiences and expose XR-specific best practices to maximize
learning transfer. ABOUT THE AUTHORS Sebastien Loze : Starting his career in the modeling and simulation
community more than 15 years ago, S{\'e}bastien has focused on learning about the latest simulation
innovations and sharing information on how experts have solved their challenges. He worked on the
COTS integration at CAE and the Presagis focusing on Simulation and Visualization products. More
recently, Sebastien put together simulation and training teams and strategies for emerging companies
like CM Labs and D-BOX. He is now the Simulations Industry Manager at Epic Games, focusing on helping
companies develop real-time solutions for simulation-based training. Philippe Lepinard: Former
military helicopter pilot and simulation officer, Philippe L{\'e}pinard is now an associate professor
at the University of Paris-Est Cr{\'e}teil (UPEC). His research is focusing on playful learning
and training through simulation. He is one of the founding members of the French simulation association.
