Social attachment theory states that individuals seek the proximity of attachment figures (e.g.
family members, friends, colleagues, familiar places or objects) when faced with threat. During
disasters, this means that family members may seek each other before evacuating, gather personal
property before heading to familiar exits and places, or follow groups/crowds, etc. This hard-wired
human tendency should be considered in the assessment of risk and the creation of disaster management
plans. Doing so may result in more realistic evacuation procedures and may minimise the number of
casualties and injuries. In this context, a dynamic spatio-temporal analysis of seismic risk is
presented using SOLACE, a multi-agent model of pedestrian behaviour based on social attachment
theory implemented using the Belief-Desire-Intention approach. The model focuses on the influence
of human, social, physical and temporal factors on successful evacuation. Human factors considered
include perception and mobility defined by age. Social factors are defined by attachment bonds,
social groups, population distribution, and cultural norms. Physical factors refer to the location
of the epicentre of the earthquake, spatial distribution/layout and attributes of environmental
objects such as buildings, roads, barriers (cars), placement of safe areas, evacuation routes,
and the resulting debris/damage from the earthquake. Experiments tested the influence of time
of the day, presence of disabled persons and earthquake intensity. Initial results show that factors
that influence arrivals in safe areas include (a) human factors (age, disability, speed), (b) pre-evacuation
behaviours, (c) perception distance (social attachment, time of day), (d) social interaction
during evacuation, and (e) physical and spatial aspects, such as limitations imposed by debris
(damage), and the distance to safe areas. To validate the results, scenarios will be designed with
stakeholders, who will also take part in the definition of a serious game. The recommendation of
this research is that both social and physical aspects should be considered when defining vulnerability
in the analysis of risk. 