Increasingly sophisticated function development is taking place with the aim of developing efficient,
safe and increasingly Automated Driving Functions. This development is possible with the use of
diverse data from sources such as Navigation Systems, eHorizon, on-board sensor data, Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
(V2I) and Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communication. Increasing challenges arise with the dependency
on large amounts of real-time data coming from off-board sources. At the core of addressing these
challenges lies the concept of a Digital Dependability Identity (DDI) of a component or system.
DDIs are modular, composable, and executable components in the field, facilitating: $\bullet$
efficient synthesis of component and system dependability information, $\bullet$ effective
evaluation of information for safe and secure composition of highly distributed and autonomous
Cyber Physical Systems. In AVL's Connected Powertrain (TM), Automated Driving Functions are tailored
to Powertrain Control Strategies that predictively increase energy efficiency according to the
powertrain type and its component efficiencies. Simultaneously, the burden on the driver is reduced
by optimizing the vehicle velocity, whilst minimizing any journey time penalty.In this work, the
development of dependable Automated Driving Functions is exemplified by the Traffic Light Assistant,
an adaptive strategy that utilizes predictions of preceding traffic, upcoming road curvature,
inclination, speed limits, and especially traffic light signal phase and timing information to
increase the energy efficiency in an urban traffic environment. A key aspect of this development
is the possibility for seamless and simultaneous development; from office simulation to human-in-the-loop
and to real-time tests that include vehicle and powertrain hardware. Driver's acceptance and comfort
is rated in an advanced diver simulator mounted on a hexapod, capable of emulating longitudinal
and lateral acceleration of a real vehicle. Test results from real-time function validation on
a Powertrain Testbed are shown, including real traffic light signal phasing information and traffic
flow representation on Graz city roads. 