Fingerprinting-based positioning, one of the promising indoor positioning solutions, has been
broadly explored owing to the pervasiveness of sensor-rich mobile devices, the prosperity of opportunistically
measurable location-relevant signals and the progress of data-driven algorithms. One critical
challenge is to controland improve the quality of the reference fingerprint map (RFM), which is
built at the offline stage and applied for online positioning. The key concept concerningthe quality
control of the RFM is updating the RFM according to the newly measured data. Though varies methods
have been proposed for adapting the RFM, they approach the problem by introducing extra-positioning
schemes (e.g. PDR orUGV) and directly adjust the RFM without distinguishing whether critical changes
have occurred. This paper aims at proposing an extra-positioning-free solution by making full
use of the redundancy of measurable features. Loosely inspired by random sampling consensus (RANSAC),
arbitrarily sampled subset of features from the online measurement are used for generating multi-resamples,
which areused for estimating the intermediate locations. In the way of resampling, it can mitigate
the impact of the changed features on positioning and enables to retrieve accurate location estimation.
The users location is robustly computed by identifying the candidate locations from these intermediate
ones using modified Jaccardindex (MJI) and the feature-wise change belief is calculated according
to the world model of the RFM and the estimated variability of features. In order to validate our proposed
approach, two levels of experimental analysis have been carried out. On the simulated dataset,
the average change detection accuracy is about 90%. Meanwhile, the improvement of positioning
accuracy within 2 m is about 20% by dropping out the features that are detected as changed when performing
positioning comparing to that of using all measured features for location estimation. On the long-term
collected dataset, the average change detection accuracy is about 85%. 