As a traditional tool of external assistance, crutches play an important role in society. They have
a wide range of applications to help either the elderly and disabled to walk or to treat certain illnesses
or for post-operative rehabilitation. But there are many different types of crutches, including
shoulder crutches and elbow crutches. How to choose has become an issue that deserves to be debated.
Because while crutches help people walk, they also have an impact on the body. Inappropriate choice
of crutches or long-term misuse can lead to problems such as scoliosis. Previous studies were mainly
experimental measurements or the construction of dynamic models to calculate the load on joints
with crutches. These studies focus only on the level of the joints, ignoring the role that muscles
play in this process. Although some also take into account the degree of muscle activation, there
is still a lack of quantitative analysis. The traditional dynamic model can be used to calculate
the load on each joint. However, due to the activation of the muscle, this situation only causes part
of the load transmitted to the joint, and the work of the chair will compensate the other part of the
load. Analysis at the muscle level allows a better understanding of the impact of crutches on the
body. By comparing the levels of activation of the trunk muscles, it was found that the use of crutches
for walking, especially a single crutch, can cause a large difference in the activation of the back
muscles on the left and right sides, and this difference will cause muscle degeneration for a long
time, leading to scoliosis. In this article taking scoliosis as an example, by analyzing the muscles
around the spine, we can better understand the pathology and can better prevent diseases. The objective
of this article is to analyze normal walking compared to walking with one or two crutches using OpenSim
software to obtain the degree of activation of different muscles in order to analyze the impact of
crutches on the body. 