[Note, Ohio legislation unlike Federal legislation, shows the entire
law as it would be changed by the legislation.  These parts are in
ALL CAPITALS, the rest (i.e., current law is in regular type)].
To amend sections2923.11, 2923.17,and 2923.20 and
to enact section 2923.181 of the Revised Code
to expand the defintion of dangerous ordnance to
include military weapons that do not use bolt 
action, to increase the penalty for a violation
of the prohibition against possession of
dangerous ordnance, to prohibit any person from
acquiring a military weapon on or after the act's
effective date, to require the licensure of 
military weapons acquired for aproper purpose
prior to the act's effective dte, to prohibit a
person from importing, manufacturing, or selling
a military weapon, and to declare an emergency.
Section 1. That sections 2923.11, 2923.17 and 2923.20 be
amended and section 2923.181 of the Revised Code be enacted to 
read as follows:
     Sec.  2923.11.  As used in section 2923.11 to 2923.24 of
the Revised Code:
     (A) "deadly weapon" means any instrument, device, or thing
capable of inflicting death, and designed or specially adapted
for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried, or used as a weapon.
     (B)(1)  "firearm" means any deadly weapon capable of
expelling or propelling one or more projectiles by the action of
an explosive or combustible propellant.  "firarms" includes an
unloaded firearm, and any firearm which is inoperable but which
can readily be rendered operable.
     (2) When determining whether a firearm is capable of
expelling or propelling one or more projectiles by the action of
an explosive or combustible propellant, the trier of fact may
rely upon circumstancial evidence, including, but not limited to,
the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
     (C) "Handgun" means any firearm designed to be fired while 
held in one hand.
     (D) "Semi-automatic firearm" means any firearm designed or
specially adapted to fire a single cartridge and automatically
chamber a suceeding cartridge ready to fire, with a single
function of the trigger.
     (E) "Automatic firearm" means any firearm designed or
specially adapted to fire a succession of cartridges with a 
single function of the trigger.  "Automatic firearm" also means
any semi-automatic firearm designed or specially adapted to fire
more than thirty-one cartridges without reloading, other than a
firearm chambering only .22 caliber short, long, or long-rifle
cartridges.
     (F) "Sawed-off firearm" means a shotgun with a barrel less
than eighteen inches long, or a rifle with a barrel less than
sixteen inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than twenty-six
inches long overall.
     (G)  "Zip-gun" means any of the following:
     (1)  Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture;
     (2)  Any device, including without limitation a starter's
pistol, not designed as a firearm, but which is specially adapted
for use as a firearm;
     (3)  Any industrial tool, signalling device, or safety
device, not designed as a firearm, but which as designed is
capable of use as such A FIREARM, when possessed, carried, or
used as a firearm.
     (H)  "Explosive device" means any device designed or
specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property
by means of an explosion, and consisting of an explosive
substance or agency and a means to detonate it.  "Explosive
device" includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive
demolition device, any blasting cap or detonator containing an
explosive charge, and any pressure vessel which has been
knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
     (I)  "Incendiary device" means any firebomb, and any device
designed or specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons
or property by means of fire, and consisting of an incendiary
substance or agency and a means to ignite it.
     (J)  "Ballistic knife" means a knife with a detachable
blade that is propelled by a spring-operated mechanism.
     (K)  "Dangerous ordinance" means any of the following,
except as provided in division (L) of this section:
     (1)  Any automatic or sawed-off firearms. zip-gun, or
ballistic knife;
     (2)  Any explosive device or incendiary device;
     (3)  Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN,
cyclonite, TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, 
tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high
explosive compositions; plastic explosives; dynamite, blasting
gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate, liquid-
oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient
brisance or power to be particularly suitable for use as a
military explosive, or for use in mining, quarrying, excavating,
or demolitions;
     (4)  Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece
grenade, mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and
manufactured for military purposes, and the ammunition for that
weapon;
     (5)  Any firearm muffler or silencer;
     (8)  Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner
for use in converting any firearm or other device into a 
dangerous ordinance.
     (L)  "Dangerous ordnance" does not include any of the
following:
     (1)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the
ammunition for that weapon, and regardless of its actual 
age, which employs a percussion cap or other obsolete ignition 
system or which is designed and safe for use only with black
powder, and
     (2)  Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable
for sporting purposes, UNLESS THE FIREARM IS EITHER OF THE
     (a)  A military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon;
     (b)  AN automatic or sawed-off firearm.
     (3)  Any cannon or other artilery piece which,
regardless of its actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior 
to 1887, has no mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system
for absorbing recoil and returning the tube into battery without
displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for use only
with black powder;
     (4)  Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in
division (L) (3) of this section during displays, celebrations,
organized matches or shoots, and target practice, and smokeless
and black powder, primers, and percussion caps possed and
lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition;
     (5)  Dangerous ordinance which is inoperable or inert and
cannot readily be rendered operable or activated, and which is
kept as a trophy, souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
     (6)  Any device which is expressly excepted from the
definition of a destructive device pursuant to the "Gun Control
Act of 1968," 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4), as amended, and
regulations issued under that act.
     (a)  ARMALITE AR-180;
     (e)  CHINA SPORTS AK-47 BULLPUP;
     (i)  BUSHMASTER AUTO RIFLE;
     (o)  DAEWOO MAX-1 AND MAX-2;
     (u)  GONCZ HIGH-TECH CARBINE;
     (aa)  STERLING MK-6 AND MARK 7;
     (ee)  WEAVER ARMS NIGHTHAWK;
     (ii)  PLAINFIELD COMMANDO UNIVERSE 5000 CARBINE;
     (oo)  CLAYCO SKS CARBINE;  
     (uu)  SIGARMS SG 550 SP AND SG 551 SP;
     (a)  BUSHMASTER AUTO PISTOL;
     (e)  GONCZ HIGH TECH PISTOL'
     (i)  INGRAM MAC-10 AND MAC-11;
     (o)  WILKINSON "LINDA" AUTO PISTOL.
     (a)  FRANCHI SPAS-12 AND LAW-12;
     (e)  USAS-12 AUTO SHOTGUN.
     Sec. 2923.17.  (A)(1) No person shall knowingly acquire,
have, OR carry any dangerous ordnance.
     (B)  This section does not apply to ANY OF THE FOLLOWING:
     (1)  Officers, agents, or employees of this or any other
state or the United States, members of the armed forces of the
United States or the organized militia of this or any other
state, and law enforcement officers, to the extent that any such
person is authorized to acquire, have, carry, or use dangerous
ordnance and is acting within the scope of his duties;
     (2)  Importers, manufacturers, dealers, and users of
explosives, having a license or user permit issued and in effect
pursuant to the "Organized Crime Control Act of 1970," 84 Stat.
952, 18 U.S.C. 843, and any amendments or additions TO or
reenactments OF THAT ACT, with respect to explosives and
explosive devices lawfully acquired, possessed, carried, or used
under the laws of this state and applicable federal law;
     (3)  Importers, manufactuers, and dealers having a license
to deal in destructive devices or their ammunition, issued and in
effect pursuant to the "Gun Control Act of 1968," 82 Stat. 1213.
18 U.S.C. 923 and any amendments or additions TO or
reenactments OF THAT ACT, with respect to dangerous
ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried, or used under the
laws of this state and applicable federal law;
     (4)  Persons to whom surplus ordnance has been sold,
loaned, or given by the secretary of the army pursuant to 70A
Stat. 62 and 263, 10 U.S.C. 4684, 4685, 4686, and any
amendments or additions TO or reenactments OF THAT ACT, with
respect to dangerous ordnance when lawfully possessed and used
for the purpose specified in THAT section;
     (5)  Owners of dangerous ordnance registered in the
national firearms registration and transfer record pursuant to
the act of October 22, 1968, 82 Stat.1229, 26 U.S.C. 5841, and
any amendments or additions TO or reenactments OF, and
regulations issued UNDER THE ACT.
     (6)  Carriers, warehousemen, and others engaged in the
business of transporting or storing goods for hire, with respect
to dangerous ordnance lawfully transported or stored in the usual
course of their business and in compliance with the laws of this
state and applicable federal law;
     (7)  The holders of a license or temporary permit issued
and in effect pursuant to section 2923.18 of the Revised Code, 
with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed,
carried, or used for the purposes and in the manner specified in
THE license or permit.
     (E)  Whoever violates this section is quilty of unlawful
possession of dangerous ordnance, a AN AGGRAVATED felony of the
FIRST degree.
     Sec. 2923.181.  (A)  ANY PERSON WHO ACQUIRED A MILITARY 
     (a)  THE APPLICANT IS TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER, IF
     SEC. 2933.20.  (A)  No person shall DO ANY OF THE
     (2)  Recklessly sell, lend, give, or furnish any firearm to
any person prohibited by section 2923.13 or 2923.15 of the
Revised Code from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly
sell, lend, give, or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person
prohibited by section 2923.13, 2923.15, or 2923.17 of the Revised
Code from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
     (3)  Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with
purpose to dispose of it in violation of division (A) of this
section;
     (4)  Manufacture, possess for sale, sell, or furnish to
any person other than a law enforcement agency for authorized use
in police work, any brass knuckles, cestus, billy, blackjack,
sandbag, switchblade knife, springblade knife, gravity knife, or
similar weapon;
     (5)  When transferring any dangerous ordnance to
another, negligently fail to require the transferes to exhibit
ANY identification, license, or permit showing him to be
authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant to section
2923.17 of the Revised Code, or negligently fail to take a
complete record of the transaction and forthwith forward a copy
of THE record to the sheriff of the county or safety
director or police chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
     (6)  Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement
authorities forthwith the loss or theft of any firearm or
dangerous ordnance in such person's possession or under his
control.
     (b)  Whoever violates this section is quilty of unlawful
transactions in weapons.  Violation of division (A)(1) OF THIS
OF DIVISION (A)(2) OR (3) Oof this section is a felony of the
third degree.  Violation of division (A) (4) OR (5) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.  Violation of
division (6) of this section is a midemeanor of the fourth
degree.
     Section 2.  That existing section 2923.11, 2923.17 and
2923.20 of the Revised Code are hereby repealed.
     Section 3.  This act is hereby declared to be an emergency
measure necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, and safety.  The reason for this necessity is that
with immediate action, this act will prohibit the continued
purchase, possession, and use of military weapons and as a result
will ameliorate a substantial threat of death and injury to the
public caused by the misuse of improper use of these weapons.
Therefore, this act shall go into immediate effect.
Larry Cipriani -- l.v.cipriani@att.com
