Several studies have already considered the influence of tides on the evolution of systems composed
of a star and a close-in companion to tentatively explain different observations such as the spin-up
of some stars with hot Jupiters, the radius anomaly of short orbital period planets and the synchronization
or quasi-synchronization of the stellar spin in some extreme cases. However, the nature of the mechanism
responsible for the tidal dissipation in such systems remains uncertain. In this paper, we claim
that the so-called elliptical instability may play a major role in these systems, explaining some
systematic features present in the observations. This hydrodynamic instability, arising in rotating
flows with elliptical streamlines, is suspected to be present in both planet and star of such systems,
which are elliptically deformed by tides. The presence and the influence of the elliptical instability
in gaseous bodies, such as stars or hot Jupiters, are most of the time neglected. In this paper, using
numerical simulations and theoretical arguments, we consider several features associated to
the elliptical instability in hot-Jupiter systems. In particular, the use of ad hoc boundary conditions
makes it possible to estimate the amplitude of the elliptical instability in gaseous bodies. We
also consider the influence of compressibility on the elliptical instability, and compare the
results to the incompressible case. We demonstrate the ability for the elliptical instability
to grow in the presence of differential rotation, with a possible synchronized latitude, provided
that the tidal deformation and/or the rotation rate of the fluid are large enough. Moreover, the
amplitude of the instability for a centrally-condensed mass of fluid is of the same order of magnitude
as for an incompressible fluid for a given distance to the threshold of the instability. Finally,
we show that the assumption of the elliptical instability being the main tidal dissipation process
in eccentric inflated hot Jupiters and misaligned stars is consistent with current data. 