As the nearest known AGB star (d=64pc) and one of the brightest (mK-2), L2 Pup is a particularly interesting
benchmark object to monitor the final stages of stellar evolution. We report new lucky imaging observations
of this star with the VLT/NACO adaptive optics system in twelve narrow band filters covering the
1.0-4.0 microns wavelength range. These diffraction limited images reveal an extended circumstellar
dust lane in front of the star, that exhibits a high opacity in the J band and becomes translucent in
the H and K bands. In the L band, extended thermal emission from the dust is detected. We reproduce
these observations using Monte-Carlo radiative transfer modeling of a dust disk with the RADMC-3D
code. We also present new interferometric observations with the VLTI/VINCI and MIDI instruments.
We measure in the K band an upper limit to the limb-darkened angular diameter of theta_LD = 17.9 +/-
1.6 mas, converting to a maximum linear radius of R = 123 +/- 14 Rsun. Considering the geometry of the
extended K band emission in the NACO images, this upper limit is probably close to the actual angular
diameter of the star. The position of L2 Pup in the Herzsprung-Russell diagram indicates that this
star has a mass around 2 Msun and is probably experiencing an early stage of the asymptotic giant branch.
We do not detect any stellar companion of L2 Pup in our adaptive optics and interferometric observations,
and we attribute its apparent astrometric wobble in the Hipparcos data to variable lighting effects
on its circumstellar material. We however do not exclude the presence of a binary companion, as the
large loop structure extending to more than 10 AU to the North-East of the disk in our L band images
may be the result of interaction between the stellar wind of L2 Pup and a hidden secondary object.
The geometric configuration that we propose, with a large dust disk seen almost edge-on, appears
particularly favorable to test and develop our understanding of the formation of bipolar nebulae.
