Context. WR104 is an emblematic dusty Wolf-Rayet star and the prototypical member of a subgroup
hosting spirals that are mainly observable with high-angular resolution techniques. Previous
aperture masking observations showed that WR104 is likely an interacting binary star at the end
of its life. However, several aspects of the system are still unknown. This includes the opening
angle of the spiral, the dust formation locus, and the link between the central binary star and a candidate
companion star detected with the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) at 1". Aims. Our aim was to directly
image the dusty spiral or "pinwheel" structure around WR104 for the first time and determine its
physical properties at large spatial scales. We also wanted to address the characteristics of the
candidate companion detected by the HST. Methods. For this purpose, we used SPHERE and VISIR at the
Very Large Telescope to respectively image the system in the near-and mid-infrared. Both instruments
furnished an excellent view of the system at the highest angular resolution a single, ground-based
telescope can provide. Based on these direct images, we then used analytical and radiative transfer
models to determine several physical properties of the system. Results. Employing a different
technique than previously used, our new images have allowed us to confirm the presence of the dust
pinwheel around the central star. We have also detected up to 5 revolutions of the spiral pattern
of WR104 in the K-band for the first time. The circumstellar dust extends up to 2 arcsec from the central
binary star in the N-band, corresponding to the past 20 years of mass loss. Moreover, we found no clear
evidence of a shadow of the first spiral coil onto the subsequent ones, which likely points to a dusty
environment less massive than inferred in previous studies. We have also confirmed that the stellar
candidate companion previously detected by the HST is gravitationally bound to WR104 and herein
provide information about its nature and orbital elements. 