In the frame of the test of NISP instrument for ESA Euclid mission, the question was raised to perform
a metrology measurement of different components during the thermal vacuum test of NISP instrument.
NISP will be tested at Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Marseille (LAM) in ERIOS chamber under vacuum
and thermal conditions in order to qualify the instrument in its operating environment and to perform
the final acceptance test before delivery to the payload. One of the main objectives of the test campaign
will be the measurement of the focus position of NISP image plane with respect to the EUCLID object
plane. To simulate the EUCLID object plane, a telescope simulator with a very well know focal distance
will be installed in front of NISP into ERIOS chamber. We need to measure at cold and vacuum the position
of reflectors installed on NISP instrument and the telescope simulator. From these measurements,
we will provide at operational temperature the measurement of references frames set on the telescope
simulator and NISP, the knowledge of the coordinates of the object point source provided by the telescope
simulator and the measurement of the angle between the telescope simulator optical axis and NISP
optical axis. In this context, we have developed a metrology method based on the use of a laser tracker
to measure the position of the reflectors inside ERIOS. The laser tracker is installed outside the
vacuum chamber and measure through a curved window reflectors put inside the chamber either at ambient
pressure or vacuum pressure. Several tests campaigns have been done at LAM to demonstrate the measurement
performance with this configuration. Using a well know reflectors configuration, we show that
it is possible to correct the laser tracker measurement from the window disturbances and from the
vacuum impact. A corrective term is applied to the data and allows retrieving the real coordinates
of the reflectors with a bias lower than 30$\mu$m, which is lower than the laser tracker measurement
uncertainties estimated at 60$\mu$m. No additional error term of the laser tracker measurement
is observed when using the laser tracker with the curved window and in vacuum, comparing with a classical
use of the laser tracker. With these test campaign, we have been able to demonstrate the possibility
to use a laser tracker to measure in real time during a vacuum thermal test the position of different
mechanical parts into a vacuum chamber with an accuracy better than 60$\mu$m. 