Dome seeing is a known source of image quality degradation, but despite tremendous progress in wavefront
control with the development of adaptive optics and environmental control through implementation
of dome venting, surprisingly little is known about it quantitatively. We have found evidence of
non-Kolmogorov dome turbulence from our observations with the imaka wide field adaptive optics
system; PSFs seem to indicate an excess of high spatial frequencies and turbulence profiles reveal
turbulence at negative conjugations. This has motivated the development of a new type of optical
turbulence sensor called AIR-FLOW, Airborne Interferometric Recombiner: Fluctuations of Light
at Optical Wavelengths. It is a non-redundant mask imaging interferometer that samples the optical
turbulence passing through a measurement cell and it measures the two-dimensional optical Phase
Structure Function. This is a useful tool to characterise different types of turbulence (e.g. Kolmogorov,
diffusive turbulence, etc.). By fitting different models, we can determine parameters such as
Cn 2 , r0, L0 or deviation from fully developed turbulence. The instrument was tested at the Canada
France Hawaii Telescope, at the University of Hawaii 2.2-meter telescope (UH88'') and at the Observatoire
de la C{\^o}te d'Azur. It is ruggedised and sensitive enough to detect changes with different dome
vent configurations, as well as slow local variations of the index of refraction in the UH88'' telescope
tube. The instrument is portable enough that it can be used to locate sources of turbulence inside
and around domes, but it can also be used in an operational setting without affecting observations
to characterise the local optical turbulence responsible for dome seeing. Thus, it could be used
in real-time observatory control systems to configure vents and air handlers to effectively reduce
dome seeing. We believe it could also be a tool for site surveys to evaluate dome seeing mitigation
strategies in situ. 