Piezoelectric Energy Harvesters (PEH) are usually used to convert mechanical energy (vibration,
shocks) into electrical energy, in order to supply energy-autonomous sensor nodes in industrial,
biomedical or domotic applications. Non-linear extraction strategies such as Synchronous Electrical
Charge Extraction (SECE) [1-2], energy investing [3] or Synchronized Switch Harvesting on Inductor
(SSHI) [4] have been developed to maximize the extracted energy from harmonic excitations. However,
in most of today's applications, vibrations are not periodic and mechanical shocks occur at unpredictable
rates [4]. SSHI interfaces naturally seemed to be the most appropriate candidate for harvesting
shocks as they exhibit outstanding performance in periodic excitations [4]. However, the SSHI
strategy presents inherent weaknesses while harvesting shocks, since the invested energy stored
in the piezoelectric capacitance cannot be recovered. In this work, we propose a self-starting,
battery-less, 0.55mm 2 integrated energy harvesting interface based on SECE strategy which has
been optimized to work under shock stimulus. Due to the sporadic nature of mechanical shocks which
imply long periods of inactivity and brief energy peaks, the interface's average consumption is
optimized by minimizing the quiescent power. A dedicated energy saving sequencing has thus been
designed, reducing the static current to 30nA and enabling energy to be extracted with only one single
8$\mu$J shock occurring every 100s. Our SECE-based circuit features a shock FoM 1.6x greater than
previous SSHI-based interfaces [4]. The proposed system depicted in Fig.1 is made of a negative
voltage converter rectifying the PEH output voltage, and a SECE power path controlled by a sequenced
circuit. The sequencing is divided in 4 phases and the associated time diagrams are illustrated
in Fig.2. During the sleeping mode T1, all blocks except the shock detection (SD) are turned off.
During the starting phase, the energy is stored in CASIC through a cold-start path, increasing VASIC.
This will progressively turn on the SD. Next, when stress applied to the piezoelectric material
leads to an increase in VREC, the SD checks if the electrical energy 