A fluid model is developed for multicomponent two-temperature magnetized plasmas in chemical
non-equilibrium from the partially- to fully-ionized collisional regimes. We focus on transport
phenomena aiming at representing the chromosphere of the Sun. Graille et al. [M3AS 19(04):527-599,
2009] have derived an asymptotic fluid model for multicomponent plamas from kinetic theory, yielding
a rigorous description of the dissipative effects. The governing equations and consistent transport
properties are obtained using a multiscale Chapman-Enskog perturbative solution to the Boltzmann
equation based on a non-dimensional analysis. The mass disparity between the electrons and heavy
particles is accounted for, as well as the influence of the electromagnetic field. We couple this
model to the Maxwell equations for the electromagnetic field and derive the generalized Ohm's law
for multicomponent plasmas. The model inherits a well-identified mathematical structure leading
to an extended range of validity for the Sun chromosphere conditions. We compute consistent transport
properties by means of a spectral Galerkin method using the Laguerre-Sonine polynomial approximation.
Two non-vanishing polynomial terms are used when deriving the transport systems for electrons,
whereas only one term is retained for heavy particles. In a simplified framework where the plasma
is fully ionized, we compare the transport properties for the Sun chromosphere to conventional
expressions for magnetized plasmas due to Braginskii, showing a good agreement between both results.
For more general partially ionized conditions, representative of the Sun chromosphere, we compute
the muticomponent transport properties corresponding to the species diffusion velocities, heavy-particle
and electron heat fluxes, and viscous stress tensor of the model, for a Helium-Hydrogen mixture
in local thermodynamic equilibrium. The model is assessed for the 3D radiative magnetohydrodynamic
simulation of a pore, in the highly turbulent upper layer of the solar convective zone. The resistive
term is found to dominate mainly the dynamics of the electric field at the pore location. The battery
term for heavy particles appears to be higher at the pore location and at some intergranulation boundaries.
