Stylolites are ubiquitous geo-patterns observed in rocks in the upper crust, from geological reservoirs
in sedimentary rocks to deformation zones, in folds, faults, and shear zones. These rough surfaces
play a major role in the dissolution of rocks around stressed contacts, the transport of dissolved
material and the precipitation in surrounding pores. Consequently, they play an active role in
the evolution of rock microstructures and rheological properties in the Earth's crust. They are
observed individually or in networks, in proximity to fractures and joints, and in numerous geological
settings. This review article deals with their geometrical and compositional characteristics
and the factors leading to their genesis. The main questions this review focuses on are the following:
How do they form? How can they be used to measure strain and formation stress? How do they control fluid
flow in the upper crust? Geometrically, stylolites have fractal roughness, with fractal geometrical
properties exhibiting typically three scaling regimes: a self-affine scaling with Hurst exponent
1.1+/-0.1 at small scale (up to tens or hundreds of microns), another one with Hurst exponent around
0.5 to 0.6 at intermediate scale (up to millimeters or centimeters), and in the case of sedimentary
stylolites, a flat scaling at large scale. More complicated anisotropic scaling (scaling laws
depending of the direction of the profile considered) is found in the case of tectonic stylolites.
We report models based on first principles from physical chemistry and statistical physics, including
a mechanical component for the free-energy associated with stress concentrations, and a precise
tracking of the influence of grain-scale heterogeneities and disorder on the resulting (micro)structures.
Experimental efforts to reproduce stylolites in the laboratory are also reviewed. We show that
although micrometer-size stylolite teeth are obtained in laboratory experiments, teeth deforming
numerous grains have not yet been obtained experimentally, which is understandable given the very
long formation time of such geometries. Finally, the applications of stylolites as strain and stress
markers, to determine paleostress magnitude are reviewed. We show that the scalings in stylolite
heights and the crossover scale between these scalings can be used to determine the stress magnitude
(its scalar value) perpendicular to the stylolite surface during the stylolite formation, and
that the stress anisotropy in the stylolite plane can be determined for the case of tectonic stylolites.
We also show that the crossover between medium (millimetric) scales and large (pluricentimetric)
scales, in the case of sedimentary stylolites, provides a good marker for the total amount of dissolution,
which is still valid even when the largest teeth start to dissolve -- which leads to the loss of information,
since the total deformation is not anymore recorded in a single marker structure. We discuss the
impact of the stylolites on the evolution of the transport properties of the hosting rock, and show
that they promote a permeability increase parallel to the stylolites, whereas their effect on the
permeability transverse to the stylolite can be negligible, or may reduce the permeability, depending
on the development of the stylolite. Highlights: Stylolite formation depends on rock composition
and structure, stress and fluids. Stylolite geometry, fractal and self-affine properties, network
structure, are investigated. The experiments and physics-based numerical models for their formation
are reviewed. Stylolites can be used as markers of strain, paleostress orientation and magnitude.
Stylolites impact transport properties, as function of maturity and flow direction. 