The influence of cooling rate on the intensity of thermoremanent magnetization (TRM) and the necessity
to correct archaeo/palaeointensities for this effect have long been recognized. However the reliability
of the correction is still questioned. We studied 35 bricks baked in two modern kilns (SK and BK) in
known experimental conditions and with measurements of the direction and intensity of the geomagnetic
field at the site. The smallest kiln (SK, 0.2 m 3) cooled in around 12 hours and the biggest kiln (BK,
8 m 3) in around 40 hours. Thermomagnetic, hysteresis and backfield curves indicated that the main
magnetic carriers were Ti-poor titanomagnetites and Tipoortitanohematites. The fraction of
the TRM carried by Ti-poor titanohematites is the maindifference between the two sets of bricks.
This fraction is around 5-10% in bricks from BK kilnand up to 40% in those from SK kiln. Intensities
of the Earth's magnetic field were determinedusing the original Thellier-Thellier protocol with
correction of TRM anisotropy. The averageintensities overestimate the expected field intensity
by 5% (SK) and 6% (BK). This resultemphasizes the necessity of the cooling rate correction. In order
to have a detailed evaluation ofthe cooling rate effect, we used several slow cooling rates: 0.8,
0.4, 0.2 and 0.1{\textdegree}C/min. Thecorrection factors obtained with the 0.8{\textdegree}C/min
cooling ranged between -2% and 21% and wereproportional to the TRM fraction carried by Ti-poor titanohematite.
The higher proportion ofthese grains in bricks from SK kiln led to an overestimate of the correction
factor and anunderestimate of the intensity by 7%. However, the expected intensity is recovered
whentemperature steps higher than 580{\textdegree}C (i.e. in the range of Ti-poor titanohematites
unblockingtemperatures) were excluded from the calculation of archaeointensity and cooling
rate correction.In the case of the BK kiln bricks, for which Ti-poor titanohematites does not contributesignificantly
to the TRM, all tested cooling rates give average intensities close to the expectedvalue. Incorrectly
estimating the duration of the archaeological cooling has therefore a lowimpact on the accuracy
of the archaeointensity data on these kinds of material. 