Surface magnetic fields have been detected in 5 to 10% of isolated massive stars, hosting outer radiative
envelopes. They are often thought to have a fossil origin, resulting from the stellar formation
phase. Yet, magnetic massive stars are scarcer in (close) short-period binaries, as reported by
the BinaMIcS (Binarity and Magnetic Interaction in various classes of Stars) collaboration. Different
physical conditions in the molecular clouds giving birth to isolated stars and binaries are commonly
invoked. In addition, we propose that the observed lower magnetic incidence in close binaries may
be due to nonlinear tides. Indeed, close binaries are probably prone to tidal instability, a fluid
instability growing upon the equilibrium tidal flow via nonlinear effects. Yet, stratified effects
have hitherto been largely overlooked. We theoretically and numerically investigate tidal instability
in rapidly rotating, stably stratified fluids permeated by magnetic fields. We use the short-wavelength
stability method to propose a comprehensive (local) theory of tidal instability at the linear onset,
discussing damping effects. Then, we propose a mixing-length theory for the mixing generated by
tidal instability in the nonlinear regime. We successfully assess our theoretical predictions
against proof-of-concept, direct numerical simulations. Finally, we compare our predictions
with the observations of short-period, double-lined spectroscopic binary systems. Using new
analytical results, cross-validated by a direct integration of the stability equations, we show
that tidal instability can be generated by nonlinear couplings of inertia-gravity waves with the
equilibrium tidal flow in short-period massive binaries, even against the Joule diffusion. In
the nonlinear regime, a fossil magnetic field can be dissipated by the turbulent magnetic diffusion
induced by the saturated tidal flows. We predict that the turbulent Joule diffusion of fossil fields
would occur in a few million years for several short-period massive binaries. Therefore, turbulent
tidal flows could explain the observed dearth of some short-period magnetic binaries. 