This paper presents a model of capital accumulation for a large number of heterogenous producer-consumers
in an exchange space in which interactions depend on agents' positions. Each agent is described
by his production, consumption, stock of capital, as well as the position he occupies in this abstract
space. Each agent produces one differentiated good whose price is fixed by market clearing conditions.
Production functions are Cobb-Douglas, and capital stocks follow the standard capital accumulation
dynamic equation. Agents consume all goods but have a preference for goods produced by their closest
neighbors. Agents in the exchange space are subject both to attractive and repulsive forces. Exchanges
drive agents closer, but beyond a certain level of proximity, agents will tend to crowd out more distant
agents. The present model uses a formalism based on statistical field theory developed earlier
by the authors. This approach allows the analytical treatment of economic models with an arbitrary
number of agents, while preserving the system's interactions and complexity at the individual
level. Our results show that the dynamics of capital accumulation and agents' position in the exchange
space are correlated. Interactions in the exchange space induce several phases of the system. A
first phase appears when attractive forces are limited. In this phase, an initial central position
in the exchange space favors capital accumulation in average and leads to a higher level of capital,
while agents far from the center will experience a slower accumulation process. A high level of initial
capital drives agents towards a central position, i.e. improve the terms of their exchanges: they
experience a higher demand and higher prices for their product. As usual, high capital productivity
favors capital accumulation, while higher rates of capital depreciation reduce capital stock.
In a second phase, attractive forces are predominant. The previous results remain, but an additional
threshold effect appears. Even though no restriction was imposed initially on the system, two types
of agents emerge, depending on their initial stock of capital. One type of agents will remain above
the capital threshold and occupy and benefit from a central position. The other type will remain
below the threshold, will not be able to break it and will remain at the periphery of the exchange space.
In this phase, capital distribution is less homogenous than in the first phase. 