Multifunctional nanomaterials combining diagnosis and therapeutic properties have attracted
a considerable attention in cancer research. Yet some important challenges are still to be faced,
including an optimal coupling between these two types of properties that would be effective within
complex biological tissues. To address these points, we have prepared novel nanoplatforms associating
controlled drug delivery of doxorubicin and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) contrast-enhancement
that exhibit high specificity towards cancer cells compared to normal cells and evaluated them
both in 2D cultures and within 3D tissue-like biomimetic matrices. Methods: Nanoplatforms were
prepared from hollow silica nanoparticles coated with MnO2 nanosheets and conjugated with the
AS1411 aptamer as a targeting agent. They were fully characterized from a chemical and structural
point of view as well as for drug release and MRI signal enhancement. Standard two-dimensional monolayer
cultures were performed using HeLa and Normal Human Dermal Fibroblasts (NHDF) cells to testify
targeting and cytotoxicity. Cellularized type I collagen-based hydrogels were also used to study
nanoparticles behavior in 3D biomimetic environments. Results: The as-established nanoplatforms
can enter HeLa cells, leading to the dissociation of the MnO2 nanosheets into Mn 2+ that enhanced
T1 magnetic resonance signals and concomitantly release doxorubicin, both effects being markedly
more significant than in the presence of NHDFs. Moreover, particles functionality and specificity
were preserved when the cells were immobilized within type I collagen-based fibrillar hydrogels.
Conclusion: The use of MnO2 nanosheets as glutathione-sensitive coatings of drug loaded nanoparticles
together with surface conjugation with a targeting aptamer offers an effective strategy to obtain
efficient and specific nanotheranostic systems for cancer research, both in 2D and 3D. The here-described
tissue-like models should be easy to implement and could constitute an interesting intermediate
validation step for newly-developed theranostic nanoparticles before in vivo evaluation. 