Angiogenesis, the formation of new vessels, is one of the key mechanisms in tumor development and
an appealing target for therapy. Non-invasive, high-resolution, high sensitivity, quantitative
3D imaging techniques are required to correctly depict tumor heterogeneous vasculature over time.
Ultrafast Doppler was recently introduced and provides an unprecedented combination of resolution,
penetration depth and sensitivity without requiring any contrast agents. The technique was further
extended to 3D with Ultrafast Doppler Tomography (UFD-T). In this work, UFD-T was applied to the
monitoring of tumor angiogenesis in vivo providing structural and functional information at different
stages of development. UFD-T volume renderings showed that our murine model's vasculature stems
from pre-existing vessels and sprouts to perfuse the whole volume as the tumor grows until a critical
size is reached. Then, as the network becomes insufficient, the tumor core is no longer irrigated
because the vasculature is mainly concentrated in the periphery. In addition to spatial distribution
and growth patterns, UFD-T allowed a quantitative analysis of vessel size and length, revealing
that the diameter-distribution of vessels remained relatively constant throughout tumor growth.
The network is dominated by small vessels at all stages of tumor development with more than 74% of
the vessels less than 200 $\mu$m in diameter. This study also showed that cumulative vessel length
is more closely related to tumor radius than volume, indicating that the vascularization becomes
insufficient when a critical mass is reached. UFD-T was also compared with dynamic contrast-enhanced
ultrasound (DCE-US) and shown to provide complementary information regarding the link between
structure and perfusion. In conclusion, UFD-T is capable of an in vivo quantitative assessment
of the development of tumor vasculature (vessels with blood speed >1mm/s (sensitivity limit) assessed
with a resolution limit of 80 $\mu$m) in 3D. The technique has very interesting potential as a tool
for treatment monitoring, response assessment and treatment planning for optimal drug efficiency.
