MOSARIX is a collaborative project between three research group in Sorbonne University to build
a x-ray spectrometer (2-5 keV) portable to large scale facilities with high efficiency and good
resolution. X-ray spectroscopy and coincidences experiment are planned. A prototype with a single
HADP crystal with von Hamos geometry has been tested (resolution and efficiency). A fast time and
position detector has been realized (patent and publication).We plan to build the spectrometer
with 8 HADP (or 4) crystals under Helium atmosphere using a TimePix3 or a CCD camera. MOSARIX is a project
of an x-ray spectrometer in the tender x-ray domain (2-5 keV) with high efficiency, allowing performing
x-ray emission and coincidences (or covariance mapping) experiments using synchrotron radiation,
XFEL, the future installation SPIRAL2/GANIL or CRYRING/FAIR. It involves 2 groups at LCPMR (Francis
PENENT and Marc SIMON) and one group at INSP (Dominique VERNHET). The coincidences/covariance
measurements will be between x-ray photons and ions or electrons. It would be the first time for such
coincidences with energy-resolved photons. The spectrometer will be portable and will be brought
to the different large-scale facilities. MOSARIX is a multi-crystal HAPG von Hamos spectrometer
optimized for the 2-5 keV photon energy range. Its resolving power E/DE will be 4000. It will be equipped
with a fast time and position sensitive detection system, allowing performing coincidences, or
with a CCD camera. I. Scientific case and some possible experiments The accelerated development
of x-ray sources, as 3 rd generation synchrotrons (and recent upgrades) or free-electron lasers,
has opened new opportunities to investigate new phenomena by means of photoelectron and Auger spectroscopy,
electron-ion coincidence techniques and x-ray emission. However, several processes of high scientific
interests are still hard to measure; some of them require the measurement of photons with high efficiency,
high resolution and even sometimes in coincidence mode. This is the purpose of MOSARIX development.
As an example, we propose to revisit Resonance-Enhanced X-ray Multiple Ionization (REXMI) 1 with
a significant amelioration of the detection of photons, i.e. measuring the photons not only with
high efficiency and high resolution but also in coincidence with ions or electrons. This will allow
accessing the involved intermediate states and obtaining a clearer image of the dynamic of the multiple
ionization process. MOSARIX can also be used for the investigation of very low cross-section phenomena
such as attosecond electron dynamics 2 and High-Energy Resolution Off-Resonant Spectroscopy
(HEROS) 3,4. X-ray spectroscopy has also proved to be a very powerful tool to investigate quantum
dynamics in heavy ions collisions with matter of whatever nature, dilute or condensed 5-7. A 