We propose an interpretative framework for quantum mechanics corresponding to the specifications
of Louis de Broglie's double-solution theory. The principle is to decompose the evolution of a quantum
system into two wave functions: an external wave function corresponding to the evolution of its
center of mass and an internal wave function corresponding to the evolution of its internal variables
in the center-of-mass system. Mathematical decomposition is only possible in certain cases because
there are many interactions linking these two parts. In addition, these two wave functions will
have different meanings and interpretations. The external wave function "pilots" the center of
mass of the quantum system: it corresponds to the Broglie pilot wave. When the Planck constant tends
to zero, it results mathematically from the convergence of the square of the module and the phase
of the external wave function to a density and a classical action verifying the Hamilton-Jacobi
statistical equations. This interpretation explains all the measurement results, namely those
yielded by interference, spin measurement (Stern and Gerlach) and non-locality (EPR-B) experiments.
For the internal wave function, several interpretations are possible : the one of the pilot wave
can be applied in cascade to the internal wave function. However, the interpretation proposed by
Erwin Schr{\"o}dinger at the Solvay Congress in 1927 and restricted to the internal wave function
is also possible. For Schr{\"o}dinger, the particles are extended and the square of the module of
the (internal) wave function of an electron corresponds to the density of its charge in space. We
present many arguments in favour of this interpretation, which like the pilot wave interpretation
is realistic and deterministic. Finally, we will see that this double interpretation serves as
a frame of reference by which to better understand the debates on the interpretation of quantum mechanics
and to review the relationships between gravity and quantum mechanics. 